# TrustZone FreeRTOS Basic

This example application blinks an LED to show the FreeRTOS threads that are running in<br /> non-secure mode and to indicate status.

**Parent topic:**[Harmony 3 Driver, System Services and RTOS Application Examples for PIC32CK GC/SG Family](GUID-CDB24A84-49B8-4114-B4EF-E80CFD24D7D9.md)

## Description

This demonstrates TrustZone feature and uses two projects viz., Secure and Non-Secure<br /> Project that work together on the same MCU and offering security isolation between<br /> the Trusted and the Non-trusted resources in the device.

FreeRTOS and BSP are configured and run in Non-Secure mode.

This demonstration creates three tasks and a queue. Task1 sends message to Task2 and<br /> Task3 to unblock and toggle an LED. Task1 priority is low compared to Task2 and<br /> Task3 which shares same priority.

-   **Task1**: This task sends the data \(i.e.: delay, the amount of time for which the task need blocked\) to Task2 and Task3 using a queue, then Task1 blocks itself for 200ms to allow other tasks to schedule and run
-   **Task2**: This task blocks until it receives the data from queue, if the Task2 receives the expected delay \(i.e.: 1000ms\) from Task1 then toggles the LED and blocks itself for the amount of delay received
-   **Task3**: This task blocks until it receives the data from queue, if the Task3 receives the expected delay \(i.e.: 100ms\) from Task1 then toggles the LED and blocks itself for the amount of delay received

## Downloading and Building the Application

To clone or download this application from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/core_apps_pic32ck_sg_gc) and then<br /> click **Clone** button to clone this repository or download as zip file. This<br /> content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

Path of the application within the repository is as shown below:

|Type|Path|
|----|----|
|Project<br /> group|apps/rtos/freertos/basic\_freertos\_trustZone|
|Secure<br /> Project|apps/rtos/freertos/basic\_freertos\_trustZone/Secure/firmware|
|Non-Secure<br /> Project|apps/rtos/freertos/basic\_freertos\_trustZone/NonSecure/firmware|

To build the application, refer to the following table and open the project using its<br /> IDE.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|<br /> pic32ck\_sg01\_cult\_Secure.X<br /> pic32ck\_sg01\_cult\_NonSecure.X<br />|Secure and Non-secure MPLABX<br /> project for [PIC32CK SG01 Curiosity Ultra Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea14v17a)|

## Setting Up the Hardware

The following table shows the target hardware for the application projects.

|Project Name|Description|
|------------|-----------|
|<br /> pic32ck\_sg01\_cult\_Secure.X<br /> pic32ck\_sg01\_cult\_NonSecure.X<br />|[PIC32CK SG01 Curiosity Ultra Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea14v17a)|

### Setting Up PIC32CK SG01 Curiosity Ultra Development Board

-   Connect the Debug USB port on the board to the computer using a micro USB cable

## Running the Application

1.  Build and program the application using its IDE
2.  The LED indicates the success or failure.
    -   The LED toggles on success i.e.: each time when the Task2 or Task3 receives a valid message

Refer to the following table for LED name:

|Board|LED Name|
|-----|--------|
|[PIC32CK SG01 Curiosity Ultra Development Board](https://www.microchip.com/en-us/development-tool/ea14v17a)|LED0|

